Keaton Wood
January 30th, 2024
Lab #4
Lab Partners: Patience and Margaret
Objective: Learn how to use computational tools for describing a populations structure

Lab Summary:

  I downloaded the file then ran the commands given in the instructions. An issue I ran into was it couldn't read the turtles.txt files.
  I then moved turtles into the structure one and it worked. 

  Everything worked up until distruct. I downloaded the turtles.names.txt file into distruct like it said but when I ran it it kept saying
  a file exists error for the last file it was trying to create. I am not sure why. Owen edited the python script to make it work on his
  I did not have a chance to try his version yet so I don't know if that would fix it on my 

Q1 Formulate a hypothesis regarding how many populations you expect to see.
Explain your reasoning
  After looking at how the roads bisect the Geography of California I would predict that the turtles are in 9 populations. Even though
  there are many more dots than 9 I know from personal experience that western pond turtles(I've done trapping for USGS to tag and
  collect DNA samples)can travel incredibly far, especially male ones. That being said I doubt they are successfully travelling over 
  roads. I know from experience with desert tortoises that any time a road is placed it prevents gene flow and extirpates all the 
  tortoises in the nearby area. My groups are based on where the roads are. Any dots not disrupted by a road I count as one population. 

Q2 Why are there two lines per individual?
  They are Diploid! They will have a haplotype for each of their two chromosomes!

Q3 What type of commonly used markers are not diploid? What ploidy are they
  Mitochondrial DNA! It is monoploidy! Bacteria!

Q4 What is HWE? What are the Assumptions of Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium?
  Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium is when the allele frequencies of a population do not change over time. The assumptions are the population
  is infinite(or constant depending on who you ask). There is no linkage between genes. There is no selection. There is random mating.
  There is no gene flow(Migration). While the textbook did not include the following two factors they are absolutely needed for a 
  population to be in Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium. There is no genetic Drift and There is no mutation.

Q5 What is admixture? What does a model with no admixture assume with regards to gene flow?
  Admixture is when distinct populations interbreed. A model with no admixture assumes zero gene flow!

Q6 What is linkage? How might linkage affect the analysis?
  Linkage is when certain alleles are non randomly inhereited together. This can be them being inherited together less than you would expect
  or more than you would expect. This can be due to selection or distance to each other on a chromosome. Linkage could make you think a 
  population is not in hardy weinberge equilibrium. Linkage could also help you distinguish between populations because the alleles from
  a specific population will be associated with alleles also from that specific population. 

Q7 What are allele frequencies? Do you expect allele frequencies to be the same in different populations?
  Allele frequencies are the amount of a certain allele you would expect to see in a given sample. I would expect allele freqencies to 
  be different between populations because of drift, selection, and founder effects.

Q8
